Update CHANGES.md and version.txt for 7.0 release (#4866)
spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox: CHANGES.md

# Changelog

## 7.0 (2025-04-25)
[View detailed changelog](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/compare/6.5...7.0)

**FEATURE**
 - **sct_compute_compression, sct_download_data**: Update PAM50 normalized metrics URL to latest release (`r20250321`). [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4846)
 - **sct_deepseg**: Add the bavaria-quebec nnUNet model for MS lesion and cord segmentation to sct_deepseg model suite. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4692)

>  - **sct_deepseg**: Allow adding `-qc-seg` to crop the QC generated by `sct_deepseg`. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4754)

Reviewer: Note that the categorization of some of these PRs into features/enhancements is a little fuzzy? I had a little trouble deciding if I should prioritize absolute accuracy, or if I should categorize some enhancements as features just to be able to advertise them a little more strongly.

It's possible that I should stick to accuracy for the detailed changelog, and simply rely on the release notes for the "advertising" bit?

Reviewer 2: > It's possible that I should stick to accuracy for the detailed change-log, and simply rely on the release notes for the "advertising" bit, though.

I believe this is the best choice, yeah. For the most part, only devs are going to be looking at the change log anyways, and there accuracy matters more than advertisement IMO.

 - **sct_detect_compression**: Add new CLI script to predict compression probability. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4760)
 - **sct_qc**: Add new column to QC report to rank images numerically from 0-9. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4764)
 - **sct_register_to_template**: Add `-lrootlet` argument to enable rootlets-informed registration to the PAM50 template. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4647)
 - **sct_warp_template**: Update PAM50 release links to `r20250422` (ventral rootlets, Th1 level). [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4865)
 - Add detailed time and memory profiling for CLI scripts. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4844)

**ENHANCEMENT**
 - **sct_analyze_lesion**: Update interpolation logic used when determining the midsagittal slice of lesions. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4702)

>  - **sct_deepseg**: Improve `deepseg` usage and help in preparation for 7.0. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4852)

Reviewer 2: Should definitely be more detailed on this. At bare minimum, a sub-list of bullet point changes is probably warranted:

```suggestion
 - **sct_deepseg**: Updated `sct_deepseg` usage to improve clarity and usage [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4852):
    - Removed `-task` argument; first positional argument is now the task used
    - Deprecation message is presented to users using the `-task` syntax to guide them on how to use this method
    - Deprecation messages for obsolete models added
    - Clean-up of help and usage messages for both DeepSeg and its sub-tasks
```

 - **sct_qc**: Overhaul the QC report backend to use modern web technologies (Vite/React/Tailwind/Typescript). [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4827)
 - **sct_resample**: Improve clarity of `ZeroDivisionError` message when resampling. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4821)
 - Change over to MiniForge as the package manager (from MiniConda prior). [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4768)

>  - Add `-timeit` argument to "common args" argparse group to enable profiling for CLI scripts. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4825)
>  - Remove opt-in `-timeit` flag in favor of running a timer by default . [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4836)

Reviewer 2: These two directly conflict with one another; we should just say something like this:

```suggestion
 - Runtime of all CLI tools is reported to user. [View Pull Request 1](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4825), [View Pull Request 2](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4836).
```

 - **sct_qc**: Replace `pyplot` usage in `qc.py` to address crashing in Jupyter notebooks. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4838)
 - Implement QC outlines for multi-valued segmentations. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4723)

**INSTALLATION**
 - Change over to MiniForge as the package manager (from MiniConda prior). [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4768)
 - Temporarily set `torch<2.6` due to upstream `weights_only=True` change. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4776)
 - Ensure that `torch<2.6` requirement gets copied over to `requirements-freeze.txt`. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4779)
 - Transfer hotfixes from the `test-past-releases.yml` CI workflow to the 5.x-6.x series of SCT releases. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4780)
 - Allow ANTs binaries to access `msvc-runtime` DLLs to avoid DLL not found errors. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4784)

>  - Pin `torch` to `<2.3` to keep versions in sync with Intel Mac platforms. [View pull request](https://github.com/spinalcordtoolbox/spinalcordtoolbox/pull/4788)

Reviewer 2: The former two `pytorch` pins are overridden by the latter-most pin; do we just want to mention the latter then?
